Good afternoon everyone.
One of the first questions we’re asked when
we come out is “How did you know you were
gay?”
I… don’t know what most people are expecting
when they ask this.
Do they expect some thrilling love story with
a sudden shock of discovery — a meeting
of pure affection and yearning, seeing beyond
the cultural conditioning of courtship rituals.
Love, in spite of social standards.
Or are they fishing for an answer that has
something to do with how you got a raging
stiffy at summer camp whenever a certain camp
counselor came around?
Either way, it’s an obscenely personal question,
and in the latter sense, a little inappropriate
for water cooler smalltalk.
Yet, in most cases, people who ask this question
seem a little… disappointed in the inevitable
answer?
You know, given that most of the time the
question is asked, the answer will be: “well
I always knew.”
Some of us… don’t even put a whole lot
of thought to it.
We literally do just know.
Like for me, I had a crush on Billy the blue
power ranger when I was 4 and that was that.
For others, it can take a little bit more…
self-deduction.
We see ourselves as being a little bit different
than the rest of our friends and certainly
different than how we are told we should be
in media.
Picture books, television, movies — stories
in general.
What we are told to feel about girls — is
how we feel about boys.
The nervousness, the confused obsessions,
the… little butterflies in your yummy.
And of course, naturally, the inverse for
lesbians.
And of course, the chaotic bisexual profile,
where you feel that way about boys and girls.
And, of course, all the ways in which this
identity growth applies to trans and gender-nonconformiming
children.
Between just knowing or piecing together our
identity from hundreds of small, fragmented,
otherwise unremarkable shreds of evidence
— we figure it out.
Sometimes, with no clear, discernable moment
of grand realization.
We wake up and say: “oh crap I’ve been
like this all along and I will be like this
all along.”
How much emotional turmoil this causes depends
on how homophobic your parents and community
are.
Sometimes you come out into a gentle place,
other times not.
Mainstream culture has weird conceptions about
how children ‘become’ gay.
The general thought processes is that someone
does not know or cannot know that they’re
gay before they’re sexually active enough
to develop a conscious preference.
The question: “how do you know that you’re
gay?” — or variants of said question — betrays
a thought process that indicates that gay
is an exception to the rule.
That there is a human being who is normal,
and that ‘gay’ or ‘trans’ or whatever
else — is added later to this human being.
A veneer, a tattoo — something that is added
to the self and thus, not a fundamental part
of the self.
So….
Because gay is an ‘additive’ component
of the self — these people think — there
must be a singular moment when you become
gay.
The reality is that attraction to women is
just as remarkable as being attracted to men.
In an objective sense.
In fact, given that aromatic and asexual people
do exist — we should consider it remarkable
that we’re attracted to anyone at all.
So why is it such a fuss when it comes to
letting children know that GAY exists?
We expose young people to straightness all
the time.
Straight Public displays of affection are
without taboo.
The news loves depicting happy marriages.
Picture books are riddled with affectionate
moms and dads.
Young people heterosexually kiss all the time
in cartoons.
The objective of like…
80% of YA novels is built around some pre-teen
straight romance.
Hell, As soon as a male and female toddler
meet the first words out of SOMEONEs mouth
is “aww they make such a cute couple.”
So it’s not like kid friendly romance isn’t
available to young people.
But why is it such an ordeal the second it’s
about two boys or two girls?
The answer is, somehow, that we musn’t expose
children to sexuality.
Okay.
Well how is two boys holding hands any more
inherently sexual than a boy and a girl holding
hands?
Bear in mind the Beatles owe their skyrocket
to fame thanks to their song: “I want to
hold your hand.”
But at the time, this was essentially a scandal.
“My daughter?
Holding hands?
Out of wedlock?”
Rock music before this was about how pretty
your girl was.
Touching and kissing was considered to be
absolutely unsuitable for even teenagers.
Elvis was so racy because he made songs about
dancing with girls.
His gyrating pelvis had women fainting.
Imagine if they went to a BTS concert.
So in modern times, over half a century after
the neo-puratin revival of the 1950s, why
is gay hand holding sexual — but straight
hand holding is not?
Even among people who are pro-gay in their
rhetoric, there seems to be a line drawn when
it comes to all-audiences media that depicts
any kind of gay representation.
Ah yes.
Back to Disney.
Look, I’m sorry.
But if you’re gonna go out of your way to
develop a monopoly that’s a cross between
an amoeba absorbing foreign bacteria and a
black hole where IPs can never escape — you’re
going to be the only place fingers get pointed.
In the past, studios and networks escaped
criticism about lack of representation because
there were a lot of them.
So anger about lack of representation was
not directed at a single corporation, but
a cultural trend about the business of show.
Nowadays, since Disney’s been mustering
its empire for the better part of the last
30 years, there’s so little competition
that peoples’ ire about representation is
laser-focused on specific executives in the
company.
Due to the size of the company and the command
over as many intellectual properties as it
has, people look to Disney in a unique way.
There is, yes, technically Illumination, Dreamworks,
and Laika who make animated films directed
at children.
Disney has the additional element of longevity.
A Disney movie is likely something that will
carry over for generations — something that
will not only be kept in a library of DVDs,
but something from which we can expect sequels,
spin-offs, theme park attractions, and endless
merchandise.
A Disney movie will stay around, and offer
continued returns in a way the Sing franchise,
for instance, is not expected to do.
And that’s due to the fact that when we
look at a Disney movie, we compare it to every
other Disney movie.
Whereas we gauge a Shrek movie based on other
elements within the Shrek franchise, and not
necessarily against Shark Tale.
A single Disney movie will speak not only
to this current day audience, but future audiences.
A movie that comes out in 1980 will not be
just a movie in 1980 because it will likely
be re-watched for years to come.
And even a Disney movie that is not successful
upon release gets a legacy because it becomes
a part of the Disney oeuvre.
Available for kids and adults to watch on
home video and Disney plus forever.
So while there is additional security that
a given Disney movie will have a consistent
presence in the Disney Family, securing otherwise
under performing films a cult fandom, there
is the additional pressure that it must fit
into the Disney family.
Suffice… this has created a bit of a problem
for the House that Walt built.
Disney, on one hand, owes its success to its
brand.
That’s the reason it became evergreen enough
to just drop $4,000,000,000 on Star Wars on
a whim.
Disney didn’t need Star Wars.
It was doing just fine.
Disney’s brand was built up on the original
values projected by Walt himself.
Family-friendly, accessible to children, innovative
animation, unabrasive, and timeless.
Even if Walt himself didn’t have all of
these qualities.
So.
On one hand, Disney corporate isn’t stupid.
They know that there are many gay and even
trans-friendly families.
By the principal of permitting children to
see themselves in these films, and knowing
that gay children and parents exist, there
is an obligation to depict that.
However.
Disney movies kind of need to be the film
equivalent of easy listening radio.
They don’t really want to rock the boat
— the long-term success of the company,
and being able to weather hardship is owed
to possessing a library of material that is
mostly inoffensive.
As time has gone on, certain once-accepted
tropes in storytelling have become problematic.
But for the most part, Disney’s creative
mandate was to remove as much provocative
thought from a story as possible to allow
the emotional simplicity to be very accessible
to audiences of all ages.
And this is where the problem is developing.
We’ve always expected media to reflect the
social values we hold.
It’s why early Disney was so white, so waify,
so straight, and had an obsession with depicting
monogamous love at first sight.
And why older single women were so scary.
But the (majority) social climate of today
leans towards social justice.
Voices for the under-represented, healthy
depictions of romance as opposed to idealized
ones, freedom of identity, and — most importantly
— fighting for these values in spite of
resistance from established restrictions.
Rock the boat if one has to.
So.
Disney neither wants to make media that requires
much thought, nor do they want to ruffle anyone’s
feathers over a movie.
But they also want to make media that is as
reflective of all audiences as possible, which
demands going out on a limb and depicting
people over whom some of their audience will
have their feathers ruffled.
Doing one but not the other will violate the
tenants that have allowed Disney to become
as successful as it has.
The easy solution would be to bite the bullet,
do your market research, and make a calculated
gamble at catering to the demonstrably larger
audience.
Captain Marvel did not suffer a box office
setback due to the picketing and protesting
about Brie Larson’s outspoken attitude about
representation or the fact that this was a
strong female character in general.
And neither did The Force Awakens suffer a
box office backlash from the people protesting
an apparent black protagonist.
(Which was absolutely a JJ Abrams red herring
and Boyega deserves better.)
So I think it’s safe to say that erring
on the side of increasing visible, meaningful
representation would not generate a significant
setback.
But, when it comes to the LGBTs, Instead,
Disney has been… trying to play the field.
With little snibbits of queer representation
here and there, but with the plausible deniability
to insist that they haven’t actually put
gays in their movies.
But at the same time, not saying that they’re
not putting gays in their movies.
So it goes, that people who follow movie media
news are a little bit more socially-minded
then the average Joanne and Cletus.
So Disney promotes a film with their first
gay character, knowing that it will only be
picked up by mostly very online audiences.
And then upon release, there’s so little
gay there that parent groups won’t boycot
it because they don’t notice it.
And it was cute, at first.
The gays were patient.
We know what Disney is.
And we know the kind of people who oppose
us, and we know that they scream family values
at the slightest inkling of gay hand-holding.
But I think we assumed that Disney would,
at some point, stop dipping their toes in
and dive head first when they realized how
warm the water was.
Especially after realizing how much money
we gays spend on Disney branded everything.
Disney’s consistent reluctance to butt heads
with the shrinking numbers and waning power
of Gay-Avoidant Parent Groups has led to a
culmination of very… ungraceful stabs at
projecting queer messaging.
The defence now, apparently?
Kids can’t be gay.
We just went through a lot of media analysis
of Disney movies so we don’t have to do
that here.
Link in the description if you missed it.
But I am absolutely sick of the straights
telling me that Disney’s not going to have
out-and-proud queer characters in their movies
because their movies are ‘for kids.’
I’d like to know what about being gay makes
us unsuitable for children.
To all the allies who rush to disney’s defence,
they really ought to know this is the exact
same argument that was used when gays weren’t
allowed to adopt or even raise their own children
for the longest time.
Why we weren't allowed to be teachers.
What about my lifestyle is so different from
a straight one?
Really?
Why are you so afraid of having your little
brats exposed to two kissing cartoon ladies?
Are we still in the era of being worried that
seeing gay media is gonna turn your kids gay?
I do want to point out, in lieu of the prior
video about Disney’s ongoing vendetta against
gay characters, that they are perfectly comfortable
depicting queer stories.
As long as they don’t have queer characters.
Queer stories around alienation,
isolation,
societal prejudice,
and walking into a small town and having to
ask yourself if you’re going to die there.
And it’s not like we want to swarm children’s
media.
Even in 2021, straight people do exist these
days.
For now.
But the difficulty becomes how Luca is essentially
the perfect gay youth love story.
Yet any instance of it being intentionally
mentioned is omitted from the final edit.
We’re on screen in all but name and identity,
and though some may argue that should be enough
— that really is the most important step.
And yes, there is a… clump of gay people
— usually gay men of a certain age — who
are gonna hold out and insist that it’s
never going to count as properly gay until
there’s sex on screen.
Dicks in butts.
We really don’t need that toxicity in our
lives.
And they're too busy going on gay party boats
to watch movies anyway.
Most of us though aren’t asking for that.
We’re not asking for a lot, actually.
I dunno.
Holding hands?
Specifically romantic language?
Maybe a tiny little peck on the cheek?
Something like that?
Nothing more than what you’d get in a straight
cartoon?
For these reasons, I have a hard time wrapping
my head around the idea that GAY content is
inherently unsuitable for kids.
If being gay wasn’t suitable for children,
then these obviously queer expiriences and
obviously queer characters would be rejected
by purity groups everywhere.
However, they are not.
And they instantly find themselves among the
library of Disney classics.
So if we are accepted in everything but name,
why is just outing these characters that’s
the hard part?
It’s hard to figure out what Disney executives
intentions are because… they're rich white
Hollywood liberals who, on one hand, love
gay money.
They want the gays to show up at Disneyland
and buy their overpriced water, and rainbow
mouse ears.
They love gay cruises and make a heap of money
off that.
They recognize that gays will never have accidental
babies, and both surrogacy and adoption requires
a stable, high income.
So… when gays do have families, they are
families with a lot of expendable income.
Which is the marketeer’s wet dream.
The Merchandise sells itself.
But, on the other hand, Disney is terrified
of what has consistently proven to be a small
audience of family traditionalists and homophobes.
I… have a hard time blaming the corporate
body that is Disney.
The company has survived a number of very
long periods of near-destitution.
We look at Disney as an Empire now, but between
Walt’s death and the renaissance of the
late 80’s and early 90’s, everyone looked
at the company as a belly-up library of once-great
innovations.
Corporations in creative industries that have
survived financial crashes are ones which
honour the value of the stuff that made them
popular in the first place.
Take Nintendo, for instance, which is so allergic
to adjusting its own brand and image that
it took years for them to move Pokemon to
consoles, in spite of high consumer demand.
Steps to adjust existing IPs are extremely
incremental, because they understand what
makes these video games sell well, and a complete
upset of format is a huge risk — a greater
risk than a film studio takes on a single
movie.
Video game studios are not as robust, and
cannot absorb a flop as easily as Hollywood
can.
Not as good with the accounting.
Nintendo has also been burned bad over instances
where they have… let other creators mess
around with their IPs.
I don’t know that one is kind of iconic.
Regardless of Nintendo’s totalitarian approach
to streaming and fan art, the company sees
it’s financial security in the future based
around the ability to maintain the core components
of their IPs.
Disney functions in the same way.
However, unlike Nintendo making the 68th Mario
game, Disney can’t just tack on sequels
ad infinitum.
They tried that.
It didn’t go great.
Every Disney movie, in this respect, needs
to somehow be a spiritual successor to the
prior library of great Disney movies.
Every new Disney Movie needs to both aesthetically
and thematically be able to ‘fit in’ with
prior entires.
This is clear in marketing, as the Princesses
don’t need to be completely redesigned whenever
they make a Princess and the Frog, Tangled,
and Frozen.
At other times, this makes its way into their
own content.
Which is good for creating consistently entertaining
movies.
—but it does mean that the archaic values
of Snow White by mandate must exist in modern
films in some way.
Which means that films are still constructed
in ways that are bound by Hayes Code values.
Principal among them is that Gays are not
suitable for audiences.
And while it is not necessarily the corporate
body of Disney that is to blame for the lack
of representation, the responsibility is on
the shoulders of a handful of executives who
could have had the guts to stand up and fight
against the existing governing principles
of the company.
Whether they are personally adverse to homosexuality,
or whether they want to run a tight ship,
the real problem that I see with lack of Disney-versity
is the audience.
Yes, I know that queer folks, and many of
our allies, have been clambering for representation,
but even with our staunchest of allies, we
make up far from the majority of movie-goers.
And while many Disney fans are likely supportive
of Queer rights, there are many who rush to
offer Disney the usual defence.
“The fish-boys can’t be gay.
This is a movie for children.”
“Maybe if they were a few years older.
Maybe 16.
Then they could be gay.”
“Why does everything have to be about making
things gay?
Can’t you just let kids be kids?”
At this point, Disney doesn’t even need
to defend its own lack of diversity because
they have an audience making arguments that
Disney itself could not officially make without
getting ripped apart by GLADD and the HRC.
A lot of these people are likely very much
of the right mind about gay rights, gay families,
gay acceptance.
However, while they may also watch The Trixie
and Katya on YouTube, they hold the belief
that there is a time and a place for gay stuff,
and Disney is just not the right place.
I would ask why, exactly, Luca the fishboy
is too ‘young’ to be gay?
I knew I was gay when I was 10!
This is no doubt due to the conflation between
same-gender attraction and sex itself.
Which, you wouldn’t know this from looking
at the way our culture has this discussion,
but they are absolutely not the same thing.
As a gay child, I didn’t want to suddenly
put on a full face of makeup and vogue my
way into a bathhouse.
Believe it or not, but psychological development
among gay people happens at the same rate
as straight people.
We want to start having sex roughly at the
same time that straight people do.
It’s just that given that there are still
elements of taboo around gayness, we also
reject the taboo stigma of virginity.
So we’re more likely to start going at it
when our straight peers still want to keep
their legs closed for Jesus.
And given that sex attraction is the socially-defining
element of homosexuality, this is when the
straight hegemony SEES us growing out of being
otherwise perfectly normal boys and girls.
And this is also roughly the age when our
little brains begin to deconstruct the concept
of gender roles, so also the age when we begin
to question our gender.
Recently, I read a study that tracked a number
of trans people and their parents.
The question asked to both parents and the
children was ‘before coming out, how long
did you notice gender-nonconforming traits?’
Parents of children answered that they saw
absolutely no indication that their child
was trans before they came out.
Whereas the trans people themselves said that
they had known about their gender identity
for years, or their entire life.
The observation here is that regardless of
how we are perceived to be, we have always
been here.
Just because so much of this process is internal,
does not mean it’s not happening.
In the same way, we don’t suddenly become
gay at a sleepover.
We’ve always been sharing affection with
friends of the same gender in some way or
another.
However, as we mature through puberty, sex
becomes an option for how we express that
affection.
Just because sex-acts with the same gender
are how the straight hegemony qualifies us
as homosexuals—
Just because sex acts between two people of
the same gender are how the straight hegimony
qualifies us as homosexuals, does not mean
that is the beginning and end of what we are.
One of the misconceptions the straights seem
to have is due to a misunderstanding of the
term: homosexual.
They seem to read it as if the key element
to being gay is sex, how we want to have it,
and who we have it with.
When in reality, sex is the common ground
we share with straight people.
Heterosexuals.
We have sex with people who we are attracted
to (if we’re lucky) the difference is who
we are attracted to.
So no, there is no ‘age’ where it’s
appropriate to be gay, because there is no
age when we're suddenly gay when we weren't
before.
And saying that fictional characters are too
young to be gay — I am sorry — that’s
homophobic.
Take, for instance, the fish boys, again.
That’s the one that’s really gotten under
my skin for some reason.
You had otherwise supportive allies saying
that this story wasn’t gay.
Absolutely not gay.
No no no.
No gay.
No gay, nogaynogay.
But that it could be, if they were a few years
older.
Me, a former, openly gay 12 year-old — from
a small community no less — can’t really…
wrap my head around that thought process.
You telling me I wasn’t *allowed* to be
gay, much less openly gay for another what?
Four years?
6 years?
Tell me the hard cutoff age for when it’s
okay to be gay and I will find you someone
that says it should be higher.
We’ve got… lawmakers in the southern states
saying that you shouldn’t be legally allowed
to say you’re trans until you’re 28.
No, that’s a bad argument.
Because it sets up a hierarchy of sexuality.
If 10 is too young to be gay, the implication
is that you are straight.
This line of thinking is built off an argument
which depicts ‘straight’ as the default
— and gay is a mutation on that default.
Putting an age on gayness or transness — whether
it’s how old you can be before you can see
yourself in media, or how old you can be before
coming out — is presenting a world where
that is an abnormality against the ‘natural’
state of being straight.
And I realize that many straight people who
argue against having gay characters in children’s
media may not explicitly feel this way.
But this statement is built off of those homophobic
beliefs that underpin their oppinions.
Which itself is a leftover value of Christian
Puritanism, which has enjoyed a fabulously
prolific cultural monopoly over Europe, and
by proxy, the Americas, since the fall of
the Western Roman Empire.
This puratinsim is defined by an avid rejection
of non-christian values.
Specifically sex.
This repulsion of sex and sexuality in all
branches of life, has historically set up
specifically restrictive enviroments for women
and all queer people.
People who conform to puritan values usually
reject sexuality on principal, so it’s exceptionally
difficult to explain human sociology or science
to them.
And, as homosexuals and bisexuals are mistakenly
separated from straight puritan values on
merrits of sex alone, they understand us as
nothing more than sexual deviants and perverts.
As there is nothing more to us than sex, they
fear and reject us the way they fear and reject
sex itself.
To that end, I realize that when audiences
rush to Disney’s defence to say ‘Disney
can’t show the kids gay people’ they are
parroting centuries worth of cultural indoctrination.
That said, protecting children from the gays
is a relatively new phenomenon.
Anti-gay propaganda has only been focused
at protecting children since legal processes
in society have become more secular.
As we could no longer justify actions solely
on what God feels is morally reprehensible,
other arguments needed to exist to justify
guilt to a court of law.
And from here, arose the belief that we had
to protect children from the sodomites, lest
the child become corrupted… and also become
a sodomite…
Simply by the knowledge that it was an option.
Which says to me something very telling about
the way European ancestors saw sex and sexuality.
If someone could be corrupted to be gay simply
by the knowledge that it was possible, shouldn’t
that suggest that our antiquated forebears
understood how easy it could be for a man
— any man — to slip into gay thoughts.
Or women... but historical legal and scientific
documents did remarkably little to leave records
of women when it didn’t directly relate
to how they affected a man’s life.
This, to me, suggests that on some level,
these lawmakers were aware that gay thought
and actions were somehow natural.
And that in order to keep people away from
them, they needed a very artificial network
of shutting queers out of everyday life to
protect the next generation from opening the
floodgates to gay.
If gayness was unnatural, the human race would
not have required such a stringent and organized
effort to stop us from being gay.
We’d just… not be gay.
Like we are told not to be.
Because there’s certainly isn’t very much
formative media that’s telling us that it’s
okay to be gay.
Gay children, trans children, nonbinary children,
and all queer children are allowed to exist.
And I think a lot of them need to hear that
message.
But consider for a second, being a gay ten-year
old.
You know you’re gay.
You’ve known you’re gay for some time.
Your parents know you’re gay.
But some movie critic on YouTube is saying
that movie characters your age can’t be
gay.
Because they’re not old enough.
But to this young person, they internalize
the way that when society looks at them, all
they see is the action of being gay.
This is still the age when kids think kissing
is gross and they’re already being judged
by a purity squad.
Consider how that internalizes this sexual
shame.
Not even out of the gate and there’s a deep-seeded
hang up around sex because puritin America
has passed on it’s fear of sex.
Now… consider this same child but in a home
where their parents do not know they are gay.
And where that element of self would not be
welcome among their family or community.
And then consider if this child is trans instead
— one of the most vulnerable groups of the
queer community.
And all the while, media constantly berates
the public — saying these are things not
suitable to be portrayed to all audiences.
To this child, the messaging that they’re
receiving through media signals is that there’s
something inherently wrong with them, who
they are.
Queer children aren’t so inherently different
that they don’t deserve to be able to see
themselves without having to write a thesis
paper on why Rya is a lesbian.
Nobody’s asking for any explicit acts of
sexuality to be in a film directed at children.
And contrary to popular belief, boys don’t
need to ‘kiss’ or go any further than
that in order for it to be an adequate display
of identity.
Because there is more to homosexuality than
sex.
And if you, a straight person or even a gay
person cannot tell the difference, please
begin making steps to change your thinking.
Every year, the demographic of ‘LGBTQ Youth’
increases.
Every year, the number of adults who identify
as bi-or-pansexual increases.
This isn’t an issue that’s going to go
away and soon there will be an even greater
demand to see these people as human beings
with different social perspectives, rather
than sexual deviants.
And Disney?
They’ve gone out of their way to establish
themselves as the largest producer not only
of children's’ media — but maybe even
just media in general.
Disney has more cultural sway over global
media than any other single institution on
the planet – especially given how ubiquitous
their formative material is.
Disney has a hand in shaping the coming culture
of the world.
I’d say they have a pretty big obligation
to fight back against the repressive purity
values that are still internalizing shame
in children.
Against the illogical puritan fear fear of
sex and it's even more illogical connection
to gay people.
So their active silence of the it’s-okay-to-be-gay
topic is beginning to echo louder than if
they just came out condemning non-straight,
non-cis identities.
It’s like they think they’re being sneaky,
but they’re not.
Even younger people are beginning to pick
up on it.
If we want the next generation of lesbians,
gays, bis, and trans people to grow up feeling
normal, we need to stop putting conditions
and age restrictions on their very identities.
And it starts with us — the audiences — deciding
that we’re not going to tolerate this clear
cultural division between straight and everything
else.
This isn’t a phase, it’s not a condition,
it’s not a choice, and it’s not a development.
We’re never going to be able to be who we
are, if everyone else expects us to be what
they’re afraid of.